Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be adding some sound effects.
Excellent.
Let's dive right in so let's start to add some sound effects to our game so that we have got a more
complete and polished think.
Now let's talk about what sound effects I am going to be adding in you might want to add more than me.
But this is what I'm going to start off with as a minimum.
So we're going to have one on taking damage.
So a hurt sound kind of kind of sound and we're gonna have an on dying sound so it kind of sound and
then an on weapon hit.
So a clang of a weapon something like that and on projectile hit like a thump if it's an arrow or if
it's a fireball and then the projectile launched so that could be like a fuse or something along those
lines.
Now if you don't have your own sound effects yet and you just want to put placeholders in then do just
record into the microphone or your phone or something like that and just have some place holders like
I literally just did and that is actually what I've done for the on die animation.
Sorry.
The sound effects and we've got some sound effects to get you started off in the sound effect pack.
It's not at all a complete set but it is something that might get you started.
So if you go ahead and download that unzip it and drag it in to your project now then what you will
see is that you've got some sound effects for area of effects attacks attack hit sounds some taking
damage.
Ouch sounds we have even got the die sounds ones that I've actually recorded myself in audacity.
So if we go ahead and import those is going to take them in to the game digital TV assets folder and
it should be underneath the SFX folder here.
Now the next step is to bring these sound effects into the game world and to do that we need to add
some audio sources which are basically the places from which these sound effects emanate and they are
components as you might imagine.
Now there's two parts to the audio system in unity the one is the audio source.
The other is the audio listener the audio listener at the moment exists on our camera.
So our camera has this audio listener component you can see it has basic no properties it just acts
as a ear or receptor to the sounds that are coming from the world.
And then we've got to create an audio sources.
So let's start off with the first on the list which is taking damage.
Now we can actually do this already because we have a unity event for this.
So if I go and find my character's character prefab then you will see that we've got a health component
the health component has got a unity event and that can be used to cool things and we can use that to
play a audio source.
So I'm going to go ahead and create a an empty game object for to put out audio source on.
Now you could put the audio source directly on the character but we're gonna have multiple audio sources
and as we'll see later audio sources are a 3D thing so we can position them relative to our character
we can have some at the feet if their footstep audio sources we could have some at the hands if they
come from the weapon or we could have them at the mouth if it comes from the player's mouth.
So what we can do is name this the damage sound and then we're going to add a component audio source
and let's just overview the properties for those of you not familiar with audio sources or haven't used
them in anger before the main properties we're going to be interested in are the audio clip the play
on awake the volume and the spatial blend.
Now by default what I'm always gonna do with these is I'm going to disable play on a wake which does
kind of what it says on the tin it will play as soon as this component has been created so that either
when the scene loads or when you spawn it and then there is the spatial blend which allows you to say
this sound is completely 2D.
This means that no matter where you are in the world the volume will be the same.
That is probably what you'd use for music and stuff like that or maybe some sorts of dialogue as well
and 3D is completely the opposite end of the spectrum.
It's entirely dependent on where you are in the world.
So if the audio listener is far away it will be quieter if it's close by.
It is going to be louder.
It also affects stereo.
So if your audio listener is facing off to the right then you'll hear it in your left ear.
If it's facing off to the left then you'll hear it in your right ear.
It does all of that sort of stuff for you automatically.
So generally we are going to be wanting to not play on awake and have it triggered by some sort of gameplay
event and we want the spatial blend to be completely 3D.
Now the other properties volume is pretty self-explanatory and the audio clip is the one that it's going
to play.
So in this case we want an ouch kind of sound effect.
So I'm gonna go to the SFX and have a look for an outside effect that I think is satisfactory.
That's quite a good one.
It's quite simple and slow and quick I mean so let's take our sound effect number one now.
One thing that we're not going to be doing in the course is random rising sound effect so that you take
a bunch of sound effects and choose between them or even randomize the pitch for a sound effect.
But this is fairly simple to implement with just an extra script on top of this that would swap out
the audio clips from a list using the random number generator and potentially changing the pitch between
a range again using the random number generator if you want to go ahead and try that then you can and
if you're stuck at all wondering how to do an audio randomize then why would suggest you try is going
to have a look at how the game kit 3D I believe uses an audio randomize to do this kind of thing so
you can see how they've implemented it there.
If you're getting stuck anyway that's side a side let's go back to actually triggering this event.
We can do it using the unity events that we've got here for take damage under health.
You just go ahead and add another event listener and then you can drag in the game object the damage
sound and from the dropdown we're gonna go to audio source and we're looking for a method called play
in the static methods and now hopefully if we go ahead and hit play and go up to this god and attack
him you can see he is making a sound he's making it sound as he is being hit again.
Obviously a randomized is going to give more polish to that sound but we're not going to cover that
in this lecture so other desired sound effects on Di that we can deal with weapon hit at the moment
we're not going to deal with until the next lecture or the lecture after that because we want to do
a little bit of a refactor of the weapon in order to be able to get events and make the right sounds
then we're going to have the projectile hit and projectile launched.
Now these three you can have a go at yourself if you feel confident with adding a unity event if you
want to see me add a new unity event first I'm going to do on die and then challenge you to do the rest.
OK so let's dive in first of all I'm going to open up the health components and that's because that's
where dying happens that's what can trigger a die event can add a new serialized field for the unity
event called it's gonna be of type unity event.
And again we don't have to do a subclass here because we're not passing anything we don't have to pass
a float on die it's just a signal saying that we have indeed died now where we're going to call this
now is a few places you might choose to you might choose to do it in the die method but the problem
with the DI method is it also gets called when we're restoring from save and we don't want death sound
effects happening when we travel between worlds.
So I'm going to do it in take damage which is the last time that's more basically the first time that
die is called.
So we're gonna have on Di dot invoke happening inside this if statement exactly when the health put
values are equal to zero.
So that's going to invoke a unity event we go back to our character and we should have a new unity event
crop up in here.
Now I'm going to duplicate our damaged sound and rename that to die sound and I'm also going to create
a new empty game of it to be the audio source container just call it audio sources and put these two
sounds underneath that and then the DI sound as you can see we've already because we duplicated it and
got play on awake disabled special blend is entirely 3D and then I'm going to take a death sound.
Let's choose that sound.
That's OK.
Maybe death sentence huh.
I quite like that one.
So I'm gonna use that sound too for my Di sound like that.
Take it over in to the audio source audio clip and let's hook it up.
So we go to the character and find that new unity event on Di drag in my Di sound object and go to function
audio source and play.
So hopefully now if we go ahead and hit play we should kill this God.
Oh he goes oh a few times.
Oh they go.
He died.
So that's good.
Hopefully that's not too faint for you to hear but it is basically doing what is supposed to do.
So now I'm going to challenge you to do the same thing for the projectile sound effects.
So create audio sources for projectile hits and projectile launched.
Also creates any unity events that you might need little hint.
Do you actually need to unity events or could you get away with less.
Paul's video and have a go.
Okay.
So hopefully you caught calling on that we might only need one unity event and indeed the projectile
launched could just be done as a play on the wake because the projectile launching actually spawned
something new.
So OK let's go and find out projectiles.
I'm going to start by copying audio.
Two audio sources in here and then I'm going to go into projectiles find the root arrow projectile and
I'm going to paste in those audio sources and I'm going to rename it from the launch to launch sound
and hit sound.
So now the launch sound as I said we want to make a plan a wake.
Cool.
And then we want some sound effects.
Let's go to our Sound Effect folder under game type assets SFX and we have got a I think a hit sounds
are the ones I'm going to want to use and I think hit sound one is good for launch and I think hit sound
too is good for impact.
So we're gonna use launch sound is hit sound one and then hit sound too.
He is gonna be for the actual hit.
Okay.
And then we're going to go over to actually create this event.
So we're going to find our projectiles.
Yes.
Create a new event up at the top.
So it's going to be a serialized field type unity event and we have to include the right thing.
So using Unity engine events and then we are going to call this on hit.
Now where are we going to do this.
We're going to do this on our on trigger enter down here we've got a bunch of hit effects big instantiated
the things that need to be destroyed and actually just before all of this I'm going to do on hit invoke
and then we can go head over to the inspector to hook this up to our hit sound.
So let's go to the root of the arrow projects I'll add a new listener on hit drag in hit sound and then
select the play function from the audio source.
And finally yeah on launch should be happening on play on a wait.
So let's go and get hit by some arrows shall we.
Don't hear that everyday.
Let's go over to the bridge
that you got.
Go on impact sound and the launch sound as well.
That sounded good.
And we've also obviously got an hurt sound.
Ouch.
Happening when the player is being hit because the player is a character too.
Okay.
So that's all good for the arrow.
We're just going to do the same thing.
Take copying those audio sources going over to other projects all which is the fireball Feibel paste
in here and we're just gonna want to change out our hit sounds and link it up.
So add a listener for the hit sound.
You know how to do this by now.
And then we are going to change out sounds for some proper sound effects.
Now I think that hit sound five sounds like a good launch.
And I think the power attack hit sounds like it could impact that.
So I'm gonna use it like say say five for launch Let's just check that I got that right again.
Yep.
And then hit is going to be that power attack hits like so let's give this a play and see how it goes.
So we're going to.
Excellent.
That is working all of the sound effects that we wanted to implement and now implemented in the next
lecture we're going to look at how we need to modify our weapon system so that the sound effects are
working for weapon clashes as well as such as the sword.
See that.